Motors
======

This section discusses quadcopter motors.

KV Rating
---------

The motors used on quadcopters come with a KV rating. The KV rating does not
refer to kilo-Volts but rather to a velocity rating constant which relates to
the motor's revolutions per minute when a 1V potential is applied to the motor
with no load.

Propellors
----------

As a general rule of thumb: the higher the KV rating of the motor the smaller
the propellor should be. A lower KV rated motor with a correspondingly larger
propellor lifts more weight, uses less current and should be easier to fly
steadily. Conversely, higher KV rated motors with correspondingly smaller
propellors allow for geater speed but at the cost of reduced efficiency.

Propellors are designated using three measurements. The first is the length.
This is typically given in inches. The second measurement is the propellor
pitch. The pitch rating defines how far the propellor would drive forward for
a single revolution. The greater the pitch the greater the thrust. Thirdly is
the bore measurement which refers to the hole in the centre of the propellor.

So a propellor that has a designation of 9545 has a length of 9", will drive
forward 4.4" when 1V is applied and has a bore measurment of 5mm.

Batteries
---------

The community standard is the Lithium-Polymer or LiPo battery. These kinds of
batteries are light weight, compact and offer high discharge rates. These
kinds of batteries are made up of multiple cells. A single cell provides a
nominal 3.7 Volts. To provide higher voltages these cells are connected in
series and have a "S" designation. So a 4S battery holds 3.7 x 4 = 14.8 Volts.

LiPo batteries also carry a "C" rating which indicates the maximum discharge
rate. The "C" stands for capacity. So a 25C battery can discharge at 25 times
its capacity.

The third important measurement for a battery is its capacity which is provided
in milli-Amp hour (mAh) values. So a 2200 mAh battery with a 25C rating can
discharge 25 x 2200 = 55000 mA or 55 Amperes.

With an understanding of this information you should now be able to determine
the appropriate battery for your quad. The discharge rate should be higher
than the combined draw from your ESC's and motors.
